Gromas and the Gobbledygooks

By Minkis Grizwald III and Al Pattywagon


Gromas stood and addressed the group
About the adversity facing the troop.
“Energy levels are low,” he said with fear.
“The end of the Great Power Supply is near.”

“What’s the plan?” someone shouted aloud,
From a distant spot in the curious crowd.
“Our scientists, after much research and talking,
Discovered a way to harness their walking.”

“Wing willey whack didley, what do you mean?
Who do you speak of—the King and the Queen?”
“No, you wing wang rompus anew,
The people upstairs in the apartment for two!”

“Here is the device; it’s called a Spinette.”
“Gazoo! Gazoo!” They all looked to Chet,
For Chet was the second in command,
And they knew he’d have a flandiferous plan.

“We’ll flip-flop a flammy, you flam flam-a-roos,
And install this device on the floor for their shoes!
An unnoticed push with scarcely a sound,
The force of the foot will make the coil go ’round!”

“For when they step down with their feet so large,
Whiz buzz spinaroo—Eureka! A charge!
Zippy zap zap, zap zap-a-roo!
The Great Power Supply will be good as new!”

He waved to the troops and said, “Spindection!”
And everyone quickly split off to their section.
“Now listen up, troops. We begin today.
I’ll go through our tasks, and we’ll be on our way!”

“Frontliners first, you’ll install the Spinettes.
Electricians, make sure the wires are set.
If someone comes near, Lookouts, tell us who.
Froggie dock dackery. Frizz wandle zoo.”

The troops went to work; this would take a whole week,
But the Gobbledygooks would be back at their peak.
The Electricians carefully crafted the grid
And networked the power with each wire well hid.

The Frontliners forged ahead with Spinette production,
And each Spinette was checked for proper function.
The Lookouts built forts where they’d each take a post,
And compiled a stock of warm buttered toast.

After five days of work, they finished their preparation
And looked to Gromas to lead their great nation.
The troops were ready, and the plan was set.
They’d move out tomorrow and install the Spinettes.

Early they rose and cooked up a slice
Of warm buttered toast, which tasted so nice!
The Gobbledygooks then scurried into position
And started to see their plans come to fruition.

The Lookouts listened for any buzz or pop,
And the Frontliners began to saw, hammer, and chop.
The Electricians looked over the Great Power Supply,
Constantly checking for wires awry.

They worked through the day and deep into the night,
Fueling themselves with every buttered-toast bite.
One after another, each longed for their bed,
But for the good of the group, they kept working instead.

Up came the sun, and they worked through the day.
The end of power was just four hours away.
The group had it in them, Gromas just knew,
And rallying the troops was the right thing to do.

Four hours left, and 40 Spinettes to go.
“Stick!” he yelled. “Stock!” he yelled. “Steck!” he yelled. “Stoe!”
Two hours left, with 20 Spinettes remaining.
The troops pushed forward, though power was waning.

With five minutes left, the last Spinette was installed.
“Activate the Grid!” Gromas yelled, enthralled.
Up sprang the Spinettes, ready for power production.
The apartment was free from the noise of construction.

Now they needed what they were trying to avoid:
One simple step from a large Humanoid.
Four minutes, three minutes, two minutes, one.
Time ran out. There was no power—none.

The Gobbledygooks clamored as their lights powered down.
“Bizzdoddy!” “Flambicky!” they said with a frown.
The troops sat and waited, and Gromas did too,
For one human step would bring a collective “Gazoo!”

The night passed quickly, and soon came the morning.
“People are coming!” the Lookouts cried in warning.
The couple performed their morning routines
And filled their coffee maker with freshly ground beans.

They made their own toast and brewed their own coffee.
They cleaned up their dishes and fed their dog, Bobby.
They grabbed their bags and got ready by the door,
As the man’s black shoe stepped onto the floor.

The Spinette pressed down, and round spun the coil,
And the Gobbledygooks felt relief from their turmoil.
The energy flowed through each hidden wire,
And the bar on the Great Power Supply rose just a tick higher.

One step, two steps, three steps, four—
For with every step, the bar charged a bit more.
“Gazoo!” said the Gobbledygooks. “A Billy bop Barlie!
Swing swang swock, a swock swock a swarley!”

As the man and the woman departed for work,
The Gobbledygook gang began going berserk.
They ate buttered toast and raised their glasses to Gromas:
“To the fearless Gobbledygook who kept his promise!”

Gromas thought to himself as he heard them sing,
“What new plan for the Gobbledygooks will I bring?”
As the commotion died down, so did the celebration,
And sleep became the greatest temptation.

Gromas left the festivities for the comfort of bed,
For now, his pillow was the only place for his head.
He lay beneath his covers and, with his last bit of might,
Reached over to his lamp and clicked off the light.
